---
title: Grid React component
components: Grid
---

# Grid

<p class="description">The Material Design responsive layout grid adapts to screen size and orientation, ensuring consistency across layouts.</p>

The [grid](https://material.io/design/layout/responsive-layout-grid.html) creates visual consistency between layouts while allowing flexibility across a wide variety of designs.
Material Design’s responsive UI is based on a 12-column grid layout.

## How it works

The grid system is implemented with the `Grid` component:

- It uses [CSS’s Flexible Box module](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox-1/) for high flexibility.
- There are two types of layout: *containers* and *items*.
- Item widths are set in percentages, so they’re always fluid and sized relative to their parent element.
- Items have padding to create the spacing between individual items.
- There are five grid breakpoints: xs, sm, md, lg, and xl.

If you are **new to or unfamiliar with flexbox**, we encourage you to read this [CSS-Tricks flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) guide.

## Spacing

The responsive grid focuses on consistent spacing widths, rather than column width.
Material Design margins and columns follow an **8px** square baseline grid.
The spacing property is an integer between 0 and 10 inclusive.
By default, the spacing between two grid items follows a linear function: `output(spacing) = spacing * 8px`, e.g. `spacing={2}` creates a 16px wide gap.

This output transformation function can be customized [using the theme](/customization/spacing/).

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/SpacingGrid.js"}}

## Fluid grids

Fluid grids use columns that scale and resize content. A fluid grid’s layout can use breakpoints to determine if the layout needs to change dramatically.

### Basic grid

The column widths apply at all breakpoints (i.e. `xs` and up).

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/CenteredGrid.js"}}

### Grid with breakpoints

Some columns have multiple widths defined, causing the layout to change at the defined breakpoint.

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/FullWidthGrid.js"}}

## Interactive

Below is an interactive demo that lets you explore the visual results of the different settings:

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/InteractiveGrid.js", "hideHeader": true}}

## Auto-layout

The Auto-layout makes the *items* equitably share the available space.
That also means you can set the width of one *item* and the others will automatically resize around it.

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/AutoGrid.js"}}

## Complex Grid

The following demo doesn't follow the Material Design specification, but illustrates how the grid can be used to build complex layouts.

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/ComplexGrid.js"}}

## Nested Grid

The `container` and `item` properties are two independent booleans. They can be combined.

> A flex **container** is the box generated by an element with a computed display of `flex` or `inline-flex`. In-flow children of a flex container are called flex **items** and are laid out using the flex layout model.

https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox-1/#box-model

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/NestedGrid.js"}}

## Limitations

### Negative margin

There is one limitation with the negative margin we use to implement the spacing between items.
A horizontal scroll will appear if a negative margin goes beyond the `<body>`.
There are 3 available workarounds:
1. Not using the spacing feature and implementing it in user space `spacing={0}` (default).
2. Applying padding to the parent with at least half the spacing value applied to the child:
```jsx
  <body>
    <div style={{ padding: 20 }}>
      <Grid container spacing={5}>
        //...
      </Grid>
    </div>
  </body>
```
3. Adding `overflow-x: hidden;` to the parent.

### white-space: nowrap;

The initial setting on flex items is `min-width: auto`.
It's causing a positioning conflict when the children is using `white-space: nowrap;`.
You can experience the issue with:
```jsx
<Grid item xs>
  <Typography noWrap>
```

In order for the item to stay within the container you need to set `min-width: 0`.
In practice, you can set the `zeroMinWidth` property:
```jsx
<Grid item xs zeroMinWidth>
  <Typography noWrap>
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/AutoGridNoWrap.js"}}

### direction: column | column-reverse

Though the `Grid` component has a `direction` property that allows values of `row`, `row-reverse`, `column`, and `column-reverse`,
there are some features that are not supported within `column` and `column-reverse` containers.
The properties which define the number of grids the component will use for a given breakpoint
(`xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, and `xl`) are focused on controlling width
and do **not** have similar effects on height within `column` and `column-reverse` containers.
If used within `column` or `column-reverse` containers, these properties may have undesirable effects on the width of the `Grid` elements.

## CSS Grid Layout

Material-UI doesn't provide any CSS Grid functionality itself, but as seen below you can easily use CSS Grid to layout your pages.

{{"demo": "pages/components/grid/CSSGrid.js"}}
