docs/src/pages/discover-more/related-projects/related-projects.md, before:

# Related projects

<p class="description">A carefully curated list of libraries that are worth having a look at.</p>

Because the scope of problems Material-UI solves is bound, we try to play nicely with
other libraries.
Feel free to submit a pull request to add another project; it will be accepted if it is suitable.

## Design resources

<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/figma-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-figma" style="margin-left: 8px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-figma.svg" alt="figma" /></a>
<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/adobe-xd-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-adobe-xd" style="margin-left: 32px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-adobe-xd.svg" alt="adobe-xd" /></a>
<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/sketch-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-sketch" style="margin-left: 32px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-sketch.svg" alt="sketch" /></a>

A set of reusable components for design tools is available, designed to match the React components, and to help you craft great products:

- [Figma](https://material-ui.com/store/items/figma-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-figma): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI components.
- [Adobe XD](https://material-ui.com/store/items/adobe-xd-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-adobe-xd): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI components.
- [Sketch](https://material-ui.com/store/items/sketch-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-sketch): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI symbols.
- [Framer](https://packages.framer.com/package/material-ui/material-ui): A small free UI kit of Material-UI components.

## Images and illustrations

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com): 📷 A great resource for finding beautiful, high-resolution, free photos that you can use in your projects.
- [unDraw](https://undraw.co/): 📐 Like Unsplash but for amazing vector illustrations.
- [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/): Over 1000 Free SVG icons for popular brands.

## Application frameworks

- [react-admin](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin): A frontend Framework for building B2B applications running in the browser on top of REST/GraphQL APIs.

## IDE tools

- [Material-UI Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-snippets): VSCode extension providing snippets.
- [Material-UI Codemorphs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-codemorphs): VSCode extension providing codemods.
- [eslint: detect unused classes](https://github.com/jens-ox/eslint-plugin-material-ui-unused-classes): ESLint plugin to detect unused styling classes with `@material-ui/styles`.

## Components

This is a collection of third-party projects that extend Material-UI.

### Layout

- [@mui-treasury/layout](https://mui-treasury.com/layout): Components to handle the overall layout of a page. You can find a couple of examples, e.g. [a reactjs.org clone](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/clones/reactjs).

### Notification

- [notistack](https://github.com/iamhosseindhv/notistack): Makes it easy to display snackbars (so you don't have to deal with open/close state of them).

### Upload

- [material-ui-dropzone](https://github.com/Yuvaleros/material-ui-dropzone): Built on top of react-dropzone.

### Form

- [react-hook-form](https://react-hook-form.com/): React hook for form validation.
- [formik-material-ui](https://github.com/stackworx/formik-material-ui): Bindings for using Material-UI with [formik](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik).
- [redux-form-material-ui](https://github.com/erikras/redux-form-material-ui): Bindings for using Material-UI with [Redux Form](https://redux-form.com/).
- [mui-rff](https://github.com/lookfirst/mui-rff): Bindings for using Material-UI with [React Final Form](https://final-form.org/react).
- [@ui-schema/ds-material](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ui-schema/ds-material) Bindings for using Material-UI with [UI Schema](https://github.com/ui-schema/ui-schema), JSON Schema compatible

### Carousel

- [material-auto-rotating-carousel](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-auto-rotating-carousel): Introduce new users to your app.

### Image

- [material-ui-image](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-ui-image): Images are ugly until they're loaded. Materialize it with material image! It will fade in like the material image loading pattern suggests.

### Scheduler/Calendar

- [dx-react-scheduler-material-ui](https://devexpress.github.io/devextreme-reactive/react/scheduler/): A scheduler/calendar component for Material-UI with multiple calendar views, editing, recurrence appointments and date navigation features ([paid license](https://js.devexpress.com/licensing/)).

### Chart

- [dx-react-chart-material-ui](https://devexpress.github.io/devextreme-reactive/react/chart/): Charts for Material-UI that visualizes data using a variety of series types, including bar, line, area, scatter, pie, and more ([paid license](https://js.devexpress.com/licensing/)).

### Dialog

- [material-ui-confirm](https://github.com/jonatanklosko/material-ui-confirm): Provides easy to use confirmation dialogs to simplify confirming user actions without writing boilerplate code.

### Color picker

- [material-ui-color](https://github.com/mikbry/material-ui-color): Collections of color components for material-ui. No dependencies, small, highly customizable and theming support!

## Blocks

- [components-extra](https://github.com/alexandre-lelain/components-extra): Provides a set of "molecule" components built on top of Material-UI like a Footer, a CookiesBanner, a BackToTop button and other complex elements highly customizable to help devs build the macro parts of their UI very quickly. Those components are often duplicated across sites - this library solves this exact problem.

## Theming

- [create-mui-theme](https://react-theming.github.io/create-mui-theme/): An online tool for creating Material-UI themes via Material Design Color Tool.
- [material-ui-theme-editor](https://in-your-saas.github.io/material-ui-theme-editor/): A tool to generate themes for your Material-UI applications by just selecting the colors and having a live preview.
- [Material palette generator](https://material.io/inline-tools/color/): The Material palette generator can be used to generate a palette for any color you input.

Commit message:

[docs] Link Sparkline from third-party

docs/src/pages/discover-more/related-projects/related-projects.md, after:

# Related projects

<p class="description">A carefully curated list of libraries that are worth having a look at.</p>

Because the scope of problems Material-UI solves is bound, we try to play nicely with
other libraries.
Feel free to submit a pull request to add another project; it will be accepted if it is suitable.

## Design resources

<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/figma-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-figma" style="margin-left: 8px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-figma.svg" alt="figma" /></a>
<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/adobe-xd-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-adobe-xd" style="margin-left: 32px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-adobe-xd.svg" alt="adobe-xd" /></a>
<a href="https://material-ui.com/store/items/sketch-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=installation-sketch" style="margin-left: 32px; margin-top: 8px; display: inline-block;"><img src="/static/images/download-sketch.svg" alt="sketch" /></a>

A set of reusable components for design tools is available, designed to match the React components, and to help you craft great products:

- [Figma](https://material-ui.com/store/items/figma-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-figma): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI components.
- [Adobe XD](https://material-ui.com/store/items/adobe-xd-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-adobe-xd): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI components.
- [Sketch](https://material-ui.com/store/items/sketch-react/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=related-projects-sketch): A large UI kit with over 600 handcrafted Material-UI symbols.
- [Framer](https://packages.framer.com/package/material-ui/material-ui): A small free UI kit of Material-UI components.

## Images and illustrations

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com): 📷 A great resource for finding beautiful, high-resolution, free photos that you can use in your projects.
- [unDraw](https://undraw.co/): 📐 Like Unsplash but for amazing vector illustrations.
- [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/): Over 1000 Free SVG icons for popular brands.

## Application frameworks

- [react-admin](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin): A frontend Framework for building B2B applications running in the browser on top of REST/GraphQL APIs.

## IDE tools

- [Material-UI Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-snippets): VSCode extension providing snippets.
- [Material-UI Codemorphs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-codemorphs): VSCode extension providing codemods.
- [eslint: detect unused classes](https://github.com/jens-ox/eslint-plugin-material-ui-unused-classes): ESLint plugin to detect unused styling classes with `@material-ui/styles`.

## Components

This is a collection of third-party projects that extend Material-UI.

### Layout

- [@mui-treasury/layout](https://mui-treasury.com/layout): Components to handle the overall layout of a page. You can find a couple of examples, e.g. [a reactjs.org clone](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/clones/reactjs).

### Notification

- [notistack](https://github.com/iamhosseindhv/notistack): Makes it easy to display snackbars (so you don't have to deal with open/close state of them).

### Upload

- [material-ui-dropzone](https://github.com/Yuvaleros/material-ui-dropzone): Built on top of react-dropzone.

### Form

- [react-hook-form](https://react-hook-form.com/): React hook for form validation.
- [formik-material-ui](https://github.com/stackworx/formik-material-ui): Bindings for using Material-UI with [formik](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik).
- [redux-form-material-ui](https://github.com/erikras/redux-form-material-ui): Bindings for using Material-UI with [Redux Form](https://redux-form.com/).
- [mui-rff](https://github.com/lookfirst/mui-rff): Bindings for using Material-UI with [React Final Form](https://final-form.org/react).
- [@ui-schema/ds-material](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ui-schema/ds-material) Bindings for using Material-UI with [UI Schema](https://github.com/ui-schema/ui-schema), JSON Schema compatible

### Carousel

- [material-auto-rotating-carousel](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-auto-rotating-carousel): Introduce new users to your app.

### Image

- [material-ui-image](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-ui-image): Images are ugly until they're loaded. Materialize it with material image! It will fade in like the material image loading pattern suggests.

### Scheduler/Calendar

- [dx-react-scheduler-material-ui](https://devexpress.github.io/devextreme-reactive/react/scheduler/): A scheduler/calendar component for Material-UI with multiple calendar views, editing, recurrence appointments and date navigation features ([paid license](https://js.devexpress.com/licensing/)).

### Chart

- [dx-react-chart-material-ui](https://devexpress.github.io/devextreme-reactive/react/chart/): Charts for Material-UI that visualizes data using a variety of series types, including bar, line, area, scatter, pie, and more ([paid license](https://js.devexpress.com/licensing/)).

### Dialog

- [material-ui-confirm](https://github.com/jonatanklosko/material-ui-confirm): Provides easy to use confirmation dialogs to simplify confirming user actions without writing boilerplate code.

### Color picker

- [material-ui-color](https://github.com/mikbry/material-ui-color): Collections of color components for material-ui. No dependencies, small, highly customizable and theming support!

### Sparkline

- [mui-plus](https://mui-plus.vercel.app/components/Sparkline): A sparkline is a tiny chart that can be used to indicate a certain trend of a value.

## Blocks

- [components-extra](https://github.com/alexandre-lelain/components-extra): Provides a set of "molecule" components built on top of Material-UI like a Footer, a CookiesBanner, a BackToTop button and other complex elements highly customizable to help devs build the macro parts of their UI very quickly. Those components are often duplicated across sites - this library solves this exact problem.

## Theming

- [create-mui-theme](https://react-theming.github.io/create-mui-theme/): An online tool for creating Material-UI themes via Material Design Color Tool.
- [material-ui-theme-editor](https://in-your-saas.github.io/material-ui-theme-editor/): A tool to generate themes for your Material-UI applications by just selecting the colors and having a live preview.
- [Material palette generator](https://material.io/inline-tools/color/): The Material palette generator can be used to generate a palette for any color you input.
