docs/data/material/discover-more/related-projects/related-projects.md, before:

# Related projects

<p class="description">A carefully curated list of third-party tools that expand or build on top of Material UI's component library.</p>

Developers from the MUI community have built some excellent supplemental tools for working with Material UI—this page gathers the best that we've seen.
Do you have a project that you think should be featured here?
We would love to see it.
Feel free to submit a pull request!

## Design resources

- [UXPin](https://www.uxpin.com/merge/mui-library): A large UI kit of Material UI components. It renders the components in a web runtime and uses the same React implementation as your production environment.

## IDE tools

- [Material UI Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-snippets): VSCode extension providing snippets.
- [Material UI Codemorphs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-codemorphs): VSCode extension providing codemods.
- [eslint: detect unused classes](https://github.com/jens-ox/eslint-plugin-material-ui-unused-classes): ESLint plugin to detect unused styling classes with `@mui/styles`.

## Components

### Layout

- [@mui-treasury/layout](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/): Components to handle the overall layout of a page. You can find a couple of examples, e.g. [a reactjs.org clone](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/clones/reactjs/).

### Image

- [mui-image](https://mui-image.surge.sh): The only Material UI image component to satisfy the Material Design guidelines for loading images.
- [material-ui-image](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-ui-image): Adds a "materializing" effect to images so they fade in like [Material's image loading pattern](https://material.io/archive/guidelines/patterns/loading-images.html#loading-images-usage) suggests.

### Color picker

- [material-ui-color](https://github.com/mikbry/material-ui-color): Collections of color components for Material UI. No dependencies, small, highly customizable, and supports theming.

### Sparkline

- [mui-plus](https://mui-plus.vercel.app/components/Sparkline): A sparkline is a tiny chart that can be used to indicate the trend of a value.

## Blocks

- [components-extra](https://github.com/alexandre-lelain/components-extra): Provides a set of "molecule" components built on top of Material UI, such as a `Footer`, a `CookiesBanner`, a `BackToTop` button, and other complex elements.

## Theming

- [material-ui-theme-editor](https://in-your-saas.github.io/material-ui-theme-editor/): A tool to generate themes for your Material UI applications that features live previewing.
- [Material palette generator](https://material.io/inline-tools/color/): The official Material Design palette generator can be used to generate a palette for any color you choose.

Commit message:

[docs] Add `mui-color-input`, `mui-chips-input`  and `mui-tel-input` into the related projects page (#34123)

docs/data/material/discover-more/related-projects/related-projects.md, after:

# Related projects

<p class="description">A carefully curated list of third-party tools that expand or build on top of Material UI's component library.</p>

Developers from the MUI community have built some excellent supplemental tools for working with Material UI—this page gathers the best that we've seen.
Do you have a project that you think should be featured here?
We would love to see it.
Feel free to submit a pull request!

## Design resources

- [UXPin](https://www.uxpin.com/merge/mui-library): A large UI kit of Material UI components. It renders the components in a web runtime and uses the same React implementation as your production environment.

## IDE tools

- [Material UI Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-snippets): VSCode extension providing snippets.
- [Material UI Codemorphs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscodeshift.material-ui-codemorphs): VSCode extension providing codemods.
- [eslint: detect unused classes](https://github.com/jens-ox/eslint-plugin-material-ui-unused-classes): ESLint plugin to detect unused styling classes with `@mui/styles`.

## Components

### Layout

- [@mui-treasury/layout](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/): Components to handle the overall layout of a page. You can find a couple of examples, e.g. [a reactjs.org clone](https://mui-treasury.com/layout/clones/reactjs/).

### Image

- [mui-image](https://mui-image.surge.sh): The only Material UI image component to satisfy the Material Design guidelines for loading images.
- [material-ui-image](https://mui.wertarbyte.com/#material-ui-image): Adds a "materializing" effect to images so they fade in like [Material's image loading pattern](https://material.io/archive/guidelines/patterns/loading-images.html#loading-images-usage) suggests.

### Chips

- [mui-chips-input](https://viclafouch.github.io/mui-chips-input): A chips input designed for the React library MUI.

### Phone Number

- [mui-tel-input](https://viclafouch.github.io/mui-tel-input): A phone number input designed for the React library MUI built with [libphonenumber-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/libphonenumber-js).

### Color picker

- [mui-color-input](https://viclafouch.github.io/mui-color-input): A color input designed for the React library MUI built with [TinyColor](https://tinycolor.vercel.app/).
- [material-ui-color](https://github.com/mikbry/material-ui-color): Collections of color components for Material UI. No dependencies, small, highly customizable, and supports theming.

### Sparkline

- [mui-plus](https://mui-plus.vercel.app/components/Sparkline): A sparkline is a tiny chart that can be used to indicate the trend of a value.

## Blocks

- [components-extra](https://github.com/alexandre-lelain/components-extra): Provides a set of "molecule" components built on top of Material UI, such as a `Footer`, a `CookiesBanner`, a `BackToTop` button, and other complex elements.

## Theming

- [material-ui-theme-editor](https://in-your-saas.github.io/material-ui-theme-editor/): A tool to generate themes for your Material UI applications that features live previewing.
- [Material palette generator](https://material.io/inline-tools/color/): The official Material Design palette generator can be used to generate a palette for any color you choose.
