docs/data/joy/components/aspect-ratio/aspect-ratio.md, before:

---
product: joy-ui
title: React Aspect Ratio component
---

# Aspect ratio

<p class="description">The aspect ratio component shapes the content with the specified ratio.</p>

## Introduction

`AspectRatio` is a wrapper component that allows you to rapidly control its content aspect ratio.
Its default implementation combines `height: 0px` with percentage `padding-bottom` to properly accommodate the content.

:::info
**Note:** A [native CSS `aspect-ratio` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/aspect-ratio) already exists but MUI is not using it yet due to limited browser support.
Once the support increases significantly, MUI will switch over to it.
:::

## Component

After [installation](/joy-ui/getting-started/installation/), you can start building with this component using the following basic elements:

```jsx
import AspectRatio from '@mui/joy/AspectRatio';

export default function MyApp() {
  return <AspectRatio />;
}
```

### Basic usage

The default aspect ratio is `16/9`.
Make sure that the content you want to fit the aspect ratio is its first direct child.

{{"demo": "BasicRatio.js"}}

### Ratio

Use the `ratio` prop to change the aspect ratio.
The value will used by the [CSS `calc()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc) function.

{{"demo": "CustomRatio.js"}}

### Media

When using media elements as first child of the aspect ratio component, use the `objectFit` prop to control how it should be resized.
It comes with `object-fit: cover` set by default.

{{"demo": "MediaRatio.js"}}

### Media placeholder

Use a `<div>` or `Box` component with an icon as fallback when there is no media content provided.

{{"demo": "PlaceholderAspectRatio.js"}}

### Controlling the height

Use `minHeight` and `maxHeight` to set the lower and upper bound of the component's height.
This is useful when the aspect ratio is used in a component that has dynamic width.

{{"demo": "MinMaxRatio.js"}}

### Inside a flex row

When the aspect ratio component is placed as a child of a flexbox `row` container, use `flex-basis` to set the ideal width of the aspect ratio.

{{"demo": "FlexRowRatio.js"}}

## Integration with Next.js Image component

The `AspectRatio` component can also be used with a [Next.js Image](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization) component as child.

```js
import Image from 'next/image';
import AspectRatio from '@mui/joy/AspectRatio';
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg';

function App() {
  return (
    <AspectRatio variant="outlined" ratio="1" objectFit="cover">
      {/* only layout="fill" makes sense for using with AspectRatio */}
      <Image alt="Mountains" src={mountains} layout="fill" placeholder="blur" />
    </AspectRatio>
  );
}
```

:::info
**Tip:** Always use `layout="fill"` on the `Image` component, otherwise you don't need to use aspect ratio because the height is based on the image.
:::

## Common examples

### Mobile carousel

In designs such as this one, make sure to assign a `minWidth` value to prevent the aspect ratio component from shrinking.

{{"demo": "CarouselRatio.js"}}

### List stack

This is a simple illustration of composing aspect ratio with list components.

{{"demo": "ListStackRatio.js"}}

Commit message:

add variants to aspect ratio

docs/data/joy/components/aspect-ratio/aspect-ratio.md, after:

---
product: joy-ui
title: React Aspect Ratio component
---

# Aspect ratio

<p class="description">The aspect ratio component shapes the content with the specified ratio.</p>

## Introduction

`AspectRatio` is a wrapper component that allows you to rapidly control its content aspect ratio.
Its default implementation combines `height: 0px` with percentage `padding-bottom` to properly accommodate the content.

:::info
**Note:** A [native CSS `aspect-ratio` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/aspect-ratio) already exists but MUI is not using it yet due to limited browser support.
Once the support increases significantly, MUI will switch over to it.
:::

## Component

After [installation](/joy-ui/getting-started/installation/), you can start building with this component using the following basic elements:

```jsx
import AspectRatio from '@mui/joy/AspectRatio';

export default function MyApp() {
  return <AspectRatio />;
}
```

### Basic usage

The default aspect ratio is `16/9`.
Make sure that the content you want to fit the aspect ratio is its first direct child.

{{"demo": "BasicRatio.js"}}

### Variants

The aspect ratio component supports the four global variants: `soft` (default), `solid`, `outlined` and `plain`.

{{"demo": "VariantsRatio.js"}}

:::info
💡**Learn:** To add more variants to the component, visit the [extended variants](/joy-ui/customization/themed-components/#extend-variants) section on the Customization page.
:::

### Ratio

Use the `ratio` prop to change the aspect ratio.
The value will used by the [CSS `calc()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc) function.

{{"demo": "CustomRatio.js"}}

### Media

When using media elements as first child of the aspect ratio component, use the `objectFit` prop to control how it should be resized.
It comes with `object-fit: cover` set by default.

{{"demo": "MediaRatio.js"}}

### Media placeholder

Use a `<div>` or `Box` component with an icon as fallback when there is no media content provided.

{{"demo": "PlaceholderAspectRatio.js"}}

### Controlling the height

Use `minHeight` and `maxHeight` to set the lower and upper bound of the component's height.
This is useful when the aspect ratio is used in a component that has dynamic width.

{{"demo": "MinMaxRatio.js"}}

### Inside a flex row

When the aspect ratio component is placed as a child of a flexbox `row` container, use `flex-basis` to set the ideal width of the aspect ratio.

{{"demo": "FlexRowRatio.js"}}

## Integration with Next.js Image component

The `AspectRatio` component can also be used with a [Next.js Image](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization) component as child.

```js
import Image from 'next/image';
import AspectRatio from '@mui/joy/AspectRatio';
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg';

function App() {
  return (
    <AspectRatio variant="outlined" ratio="1" objectFit="cover">
      {/* only layout="fill" makes sense for using with AspectRatio */}
      <Image alt="Mountains" src={mountains} layout="fill" placeholder="blur" />
    </AspectRatio>
  );
}
```

:::info
**Tip:** Always use `layout="fill"` on the `Image` component, otherwise you don't need to use aspect ratio because the height is based on the image.
:::

## Common examples

### Mobile carousel

In designs such as this one, make sure to assign a `minWidth` value to prevent the aspect ratio component from shrinking.

{{"demo": "CarouselRatio.js"}}

### List stack

This is a simple illustration of composing aspect ratio with list components.

{{"demo": "ListStackRatio.js"}}
