---
product: material-ui
title: React Grid（栅格）组件
components: Grid
githubLabel: 'component: Grid'
materialDesign: https://material.io/design/layout/understanding-layout.html
---

# Grid 栅格

<p class="description">Material Design 响应式布局的栅格可适应屏幕大小和方向，确保布局在不同尺寸之间的一致性。</p>

[Grid 栅格组件](https://material.io/design/layout/responsive-layout-grid.html) 能确保不同布局间的视觉层面的舒适感，同时在众多不同设计中保持灵活性。 Material Design 基于 12 列的网格布局来做到 UI 的响应式。

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js"}}

:::warning ⚠️ The `Grid` component shouldn't be confused with a data grid; it is closer to a layout grid. For a data grid head to [the `DataGrid` component](/x/react-data-grid/). :::

## 工作原理

The grid system is implemented with the `Grid` component:

- 它使用 [CSS 弹性盒子模块](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox-1/) 来做到高度灵活。
- 它有两种类型的布局： _containers_ ， _items_。
- 每项的宽度是按百分比设置的，所以它们的大小总是相对于它们的父元素流动。
- 子项目（items）使用内边距来保持和其他块（items）的间距。
- 其中五个断点可供使用：xs，sm，md，lg 和 xl。
- Integer values can be given to each breakpoint, indicating how many of the 12 available columns are occupied by the component when the viewport width satisfies the [breakpoint constraints](/material-ui/customization/breakpoints/#default-breakpoints).

If you are **new to or unfamiliar with flexbox**, we encourage you to read this [CSS-Tricks flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) guide.

## Fluid grids 流式网格

Fluid grids use columns that scale and resize content. A fluid grid's layout can use breakpoints to determine if the layout needs to change dramatically.

### 基本栅格

Column widths are integer values between 1 and 12; they apply at any breakpoint and indicate how many columns are occupied by the component.

A value given to a breakpoint applies to all the other breakpoints wider than it (unless overridden, as you can read later in this page). For example, `xs={12}` sizes a component to occupy the whole viewport width regardless of its size.

{{"demo": "BasicGrid.js", "bg": true}}

### 有断点的栅格

Components may have multiple widths defined, causing the layout to change at the defined breakpoint. Width values given to larger breakpoints override those given to smaller breakpoints.

For example, `xs={12} sm={6}` sizes a component to occupy half of the viewport width (6 columns) when viewport width is [600 or more pixels](/material-ui/customization/breakpoints/#default-breakpoints). For smaller viewports, the component fills all 12 available columns.

{{"demo": "FullWidthGrid.js", "bg": true}}

## Spacing 间距

To control space between children, use the `spacing` prop. The spacing value can be any positive number, including decimals and any string. The prop is converted into a CSS property using the [`theme.spacing()`](/material-ui/customization/spacing/) helper.

{{"demo": "SpacingGrid.js", "bg": true}}

### 行、列间距

The `rowSpacing` and `columnSpacing` props allow for specifying the row and column gaps independently. It's similar to the `row-gap` and `column-gap` properties of [CSS Grid](/system/grid/#row-gap-amp-column-gap).

{{"demo": "RowAndColumnSpacing.js", "bg": true}}

## 响应式的值

You can switch the props' value based on the active breakpoint. For instance, we can implement the ["recommended"](https://material.io/design/layout/responsive-layout-grid.html) responsive layout grid of Material Design.

{{"demo": "ResponsiveGrid.js", "bg": true}}

Responsive values is supported by:

- `columns`
- `columnSpacing`
- `direction`
- `rowSpacing`
- `spacing`
- 系统中的所有[其它属性](#system-props)

:::warning ⚠️ When using a responsive `columns` prop, each grid item needs its corresponding breakpoint. For instance, this is not working. The grid item misses the value for `md`:

```jsx
<Grid container columns={{ xs: 4, md: 12 }}>
  <Grid item xs={2} />
</Grid>
```

:::

## 交互式

Below is an interactive demo that lets you explore the visual results of the different settings:

{{"demo": "InteractiveGrid.js", "hideToolbar": true, "bg": true}}

## 自适应布局

The Auto-layout makes the _items_ equitably share the available space. That also means you can set the width of one _item_ and the others will automatically resize around it.

{{"demo": "AutoGrid.js", "bg": true}}

### 负边距

Set one of the size breakpoint props to `"auto"` instead of `true` / a `number` to size a column based on the natural width of its content.

{{"demo": "VariableWidthGrid.js", "bg": true}}

## 复杂的栅格

The following demo doesn't follow the Material Design guidelines, but illustrates how the grid can be used to build complex layouts.

{{"demo": "ComplexGrid.js", "bg": true}}

## 嵌套栅格

The `container` and `item` props are two independent booleans; they can be combined to allow a Grid component to be both a flex container and child.

:::info A flex **container** is the box generated by an element with a computed display of `flex` or `inline-flex`. In-flow children of a flex container are called flex **items** and are laid out using the flex layout model. :::

https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox-1/#box-model

{{"demo": "NestedGrid.js", "bg": true}}

⚠️ Defining an explicit width to a Grid element that is flex container, flex item, and has spacing at the same time lead to unexpected behavior, avoid doing it:

```jsx
<Grid spacing={1} container item xs={12}>
```

If you need to do such, remove one of the props.

## 列

You can change the default number of columns (12) with the `columns` prop.

{{"demo": "ColumnsGrid.js", "bg": true}}

## 设计局限

### 负边距

The spacing between items is implemented with a negative margin. This might lead to unexpected behaviors. For instance, to apply a background color, you need to apply `display: flex;` to the parent.

### white-space: nowrap;

The initial setting on flex items is `min-width: auto`. It's causing a positioning conflict when the children is using `white-space: nowrap;`. You can experience the issue with:

```jsx
<Grid item xs>
  <Typography noWrap>
```

In order for the item to stay within the container you need to set `min-width: 0`. In practice, you can set the `zeroMinWidth` prop:

```jsx
<Grid item xs zeroMinWidth>
  <Typography noWrap>
```

{{"demo": "AutoGridNoWrap.js", "bg": true}}

### direction: column | column-reverse

The `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, and `xl` props are **not supported** within `direction="column"` and `direction="column-reverse"` containers.

They define the number of grids the component will use for a given breakpoint. They are intended to control **width** using `flex-basis` in `row` containers but they will impact height in `column` containers. If used, these props may have undesirable effects on the height of the `Grid` item elements.

## CSS 栅格布局

The `Grid` component is using CSS flexbox internally. But as seen below, you can easily use [the system](/system/grid/) and CSS Grid to layout your pages.

{{"demo": "CSSGrid.js", "bg": true}}

## 系统属性

As a CSS utility component, the `Grid` supports all [`system`](/system/properties/) properties. You can use them as props directly on the component. For instance, a padding:

```jsx
<Grid item p={2}>
```
