docs/pages/blog/tenerife-retreat.md, before:

---
title: MUI's company retreat in Tenerife: a recap
description: Our internationally distributed startup gathered on a remote island to get to know each other better. Here's what happened!
date: 2022-07-25T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['samuelsycamore']
card: true
tags: ['Company']
---

One of the toughest challenges to overcome as a fully remote team is fostering a supportive and inclusive company culture.
How do you build trust, comradery, and—dare I say it?—friendships when there are so few opportunities for spontaneous social interactions in our daily work routines?

At MUI, we've chosen to prioritize in-person company retreats as a way to grow together and cultivate the culture that informs how we operate.

![Photo of the MUI team in front of the pool at our accommodations in Tenerife](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/group-photo.jpeg)

In late June 2022, sixteen of us gathered at a remote private residence on the island of Tenerife.
This was MUI's second company retreat, the first being in Portugal in 2021 when the team was just a fraction of the size it is today.

We had a ton of fun getting to know each other better over oceanic activities, poolside conversations, and incredible catered meals—not to mention a steady supply of Spanish wine. 🥂
Oh, and I guess we got some work done along the way, too? 😅

## Destination

![Satellite image of Tenerife](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/tenerife.jpeg)

Tenerife is a volcanic island off the coast of western Africa that's part of the Canary Islands (Spanish: _Canarias_).
It is the most populous island in the archipelago, and one of the most visited tourist destinations in the world.
Its central defining feature is Mount Teide, the third largest volcano in the world when measured from its base, rising 7,500 m (24,600 ft) from the bottom of the ocean floor.

With an average temperature ranging from about 18-25 °C (68-77 °F) year-round, it's hard to pick a bad time to visit!

## Accommodations

![Photo of the pool in the evening at Symbiosis Living](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/pool-evening.jpeg)

[Symbiosis Living](https://www.symbiosisliving.com/) is a sustainable retreat venue nestled deep in the hills on the western side of the island.
The venue is a venerable oasis of lush green flora amid the stark and barren volcanic rock that surrounds it, hosting breezy guest houses adorned with rustic, regionally sourced furniture.

![Photo of the outdoor kitchen at Symbiosis Living](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/outdoor-kitchen.jpeg)

The owners were exceptionally accommodating and supportive for the entirety of our stay.
Almost all of our meals were cooked fresh by the hosts in their fabulous outdoor kitchen.
I don't think I've ever eaten that many incredible home-cooked meals in a single week. 😋
And somehow each one was even better than the last!

![MUI X colleagues José and Andrew bond over a bottle of wine at dinner one night during the retreat.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/jose-andrew-wine.jpg)

_MUI X colleagues José and Andrew bond over a bottle of wine at dinner one night during the retreat._

## Activities

Throughout our stay in Tenerife, we arranged group activities to make the most of what the island has to offer.

### Whale and dolphin watching

![Danail from the MUI X team snaps a selfie on the bow of the whale-watching boat, with coworkers in the background.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/whale-watching-danail.jpeg)

Our first full day together saw us venture out into the Atlantic Ocean in search of dolphins and whales.

The waters surrounding the Canary Islands are a biodiversity hotspot, and feeding grounds for many different species of marine mammals.
We spotted several [pilot whales](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/pilot-whales/) and what I believe were [bottlenose dolphins](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/bottlenose-dolphin/), though I'll be the first to admit that I'm no expert. 😅

Several of us (myself included) made a critical mistake by skipping the sunscreen because it was a cloudy day.
We got burned to a crisp!
And on the first day of the retreat, no less! 😭
Don't be like us.
Wear sunscreen.

### Scuba diving lessons

![Overhead view of MUI team members learning how to scuba dive underwater.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/scuba-1.jpeg)

On day two we split up into smaller groups to get individualized lessons in scuba diving at the beach in Playa San Juan.

I have to admit that I was pretty intimidated, especially after I put on all the gear and tried breathing from the tank for the first time.
But once I got into the groove, the time underwater went by so quickly!
The main highlights for me were spotting a [ray](https://aqua-marina.com/rays/) swimming by, and accidentally disturbing a [cuttlefish](https://www.paradisedivers.co.uk/blog/cuttlefish/) who was not pleased by our presence, but put on a great show as a result!
Sorry, bud!

### Volcanic hike at sunset

![The sun setting above the clouds as seen near the top of Teide.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/teide-sunset.jpg)

## And also work

### Roadmap to v6 and beyond

![MUI Core team members Marija, Jun, and Sam discuss the product roadmap.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/focus-group.jpeg)

### Focus groups

![An impromptu focus group gathered next to the pool with laptops to discuss cross-team marketing strategies.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/outdoor-focus-group.jpeg)

### Our feline colleague 🐈

All throughout our working sessions, we were accompanied by a very friendly young kitty (name unknown) who consistently offered critical support when we needed it the most.
We can't thank her enough for her contributions to the company roadmap.

![Collage of several photos of the MUI team members cuddling with the neighborhood cat during our work sessions.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/cat-collage.jpg)

## Join us

We're hiring! Check out our open roles so you can join us before our next retreat in February/March 2023!

![The sun setting above the clouds as seen near the top of Teide.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/teide-hike.jpeg)

Commit message:

more photos! activities mostly done

docs/pages/blog/tenerife-retreat.md, after:

---
title: MUI's company retreat in Tenerife: a recap
description: Our internationally distributed startup gathered on a remote island to get to know each other better. Here's what happened!
date: 2022-07-25T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['samuelsycamore']
card: true
tags: ['Company']
---

One of the toughest challenges to overcome as a fully remote team is fostering a supportive and inclusive company culture.
How do you build trust, comradery, and—dare I say it?—friendships when there are so few opportunities for spontaneous social interactions in our daily work routines?

At MUI, we've chosen to prioritize in-person company retreats as a way to grow together and cultivate the culture that informs how we operate.

![Photo of the MUI team in front of the pool at our accommodations in Tenerife](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/group-photo.jpeg)

In late June 2022, sixteen of us gathered at a remote private residence on the island of Tenerife.
This was MUI's second company retreat, the first being in Portugal in 2021 when the team was just a fraction of the size it is today.

We had a ton of fun getting to know each other better over oceanic activities, poolside conversations, and incredible catered meals—not to mention a steady supply of Spanish wine. 🥂
Oh, and I guess we got some work done along the way, too? 😅

## Destination

![Satellite image of Tenerife](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/tenerife.jpeg)

Tenerife is a volcanic island off the coast of western Africa that's part of the Canary Islands (Spanish: _Canarias_).
It is the most populous island in the archipelago, and one of the most visited tourist destinations in the world.
Its central defining feature is Mount Teide, the third largest volcano in the world when measured from its base, rising 7,500 m (24,600 ft) from the bottom of the ocean floor.

With an average temperature ranging from about 18-25 °C (68-77 °F) year-round, it's hard to pick a bad time to visit!

## Accommodations

![Photo of the pool in the evening at Symbiosis Living](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/pool-evening.jpeg)

[Symbiosis Living](https://www.symbiosisliving.com/) is a sustainable retreat venue nestled deep in the hills on the western side of the island.
The venue is a venerable oasis of lush green flora amid the stark and barren volcanic rock that surrounds it, hosting breezy guest houses adorned with rustic, regionally sourced furniture.

![Photo of the outdoor kitchen at Symbiosis Living](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/outdoor-kitchen.jpeg)

The owners were exceptionally accommodating and supportive for the entirety of our stay.
Almost all of our meals were cooked fresh by the hosts in their fabulous outdoor kitchen.
I don't think I've ever eaten that many incredible home-cooked meals in a single week. 😋
And somehow each one was even better than the last!

![MUI X colleagues José and Andrew bond over a bottle of wine at dinner one night during the retreat.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/jose-andrew-wine.jpg)

_MUI X colleagues José and Andrew bond over a bottle of wine at dinner one night during the retreat._

## Activities

Throughout our stay in Tenerife, we arranged group activities to make the most of what the island has to offer.

### Whale and dolphin watching

![Danail from the MUI X team snaps a selfie on the bow of the whale-watching boat, with coworkers in the background.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/whale-watching-danail.jpeg)

Our first full day together saw us venture out into the Atlantic Ocean in search of dolphins and whales.

The waters surrounding the Canary Islands are a biodiversity hotspot, and feeding grounds for many different species of marine mammals.
We spotted several [pilot whales](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/pilot-whales/) and what I believe were [bottlenose dolphins](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/bottlenose-dolphin/), though I'll be the first to admit that I'm no expert. 😅

Several of us (myself included) made a critical mistake by skipping the sunscreen because it was a cloudy day.
We got burned to a crisp!
And on the first day of the retreat, no less! 😭
Don't be like us.
Wear sunscreen.

### Scuba diving lessons

![Members of the MUI team pose in front of the diving school in their scuba gear.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/scuba-gear.jpeg)

On day two we split up into smaller groups to get individualized lessons in scuba diving at the beach in Playa San Juan.

To be honest I was pretty intimidated, especially after I put on all the gear and tried breathing from the tank for the first time.
But once I got into the groove, the time underwater went by so quickly!
The main highlights for me were spotting a [ray](https://aqua-marina.com/rays/) swimming by, and accidentally disturbing a [cuttlefish](https://www.paradisedivers.co.uk/blog/cuttlefish/) who was not pleased by our presence–and put on a great show as a result!
Sorry, bud!

![Overhead view of MUI team members learning how to scuba dive underwater.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/scuba-1.jpeg)

### Volcanic hike at sunset

![A group photo of the MUI crew posing near the base of Mount Teide at the start of the hike.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/teide-group.jpeg)

The third and final full day of the retreat took us up to Teide National Park for a guided interpretive hike around some of the lower peaks that surround Mount Teide as the sun was going down. 

This was my personal favorite out of all the activities.
We learned a lot about the natural history of the island from our guide, who led us to one of the best sunset views I've ever seen in my life.
Photos don't even begin to do it justice.
I completely understand why Teide is one of Europe's most visited parks.

![The sun setting above the clouds as seen near the top of Teide.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/teide-sunset.jpg)

## And also work

Believe it or not, we actually did manage to squeeze in some productive work time between all the fun!

### Roadmap to v6 and beyond

![MUI Core team members Marija, Jun, and Sam discuss the product roadmap.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/focus-group.jpeg)



### Focus groups

![An impromptu focus group gathered next to the pool with laptops to discuss cross-team marketing strategies.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/outdoor-focus-group.jpeg)

### Our feline colleague 🐈

All throughout our working sessions, we were accompanied by a very friendly young kitty (name unknown) who consistently offered critical support when we needed it the most.
We can't thank her enough for her contributions to the company roadmap.

![Collage of several photos of the MUI team members cuddling with the neighborhood cat during our work sessions.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/cat-collage.jpg)

###

It was honestly kind of odd to have (almost) all of my coworkers in the same as room as me.
This was the first time that the majority of us had ever met anyone else from the company in person.
But once we broke the ice and settled into a groove together, I felt that we 

## Join us

We're hiring! Check out our open roles so you can join us before our next retreat in February/March 2023!

![The sun setting above the clouds as seen near the top of Teide.](/static/blog/tenerife-retreat/teide-hike.jpeg)
