docs/data/joy/components/circular-progress/circular-progress.md, before:

---
product: joy-ui
title: React Circular Progress component
githubLabel: 'component: CircularProgress'
---

# Circular Progress

<p class="description">Circular Progress indicators, commonly known as spinners, express an unspecified wait time or display the length of a process.</p>

## Introduction

Progress indicators inform users about the status of ongoing processes, such as loading an app, submitting a form, or saving updates.

- **Determinate** indicators display how long an operation will take.
- **Indeterminate** indicators visualize an unspecified wait time.

The animations of the components rely on CSS as much as possible to work even before the JavaScript is loaded.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressUsage.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": false}}

## Component

After [installation](/joy-ui/getting-started/installation/), you can start building with this component using the following basic elements:

```jsx
import CircularProgress from '@mui/joy/CircularProgress';

export default function MyApp() {
  return <CircularProgress />;
}
```

### Variants

The circular progress component supports the four global variants: `solid` (default), `soft`, `outlined`, and `plain`.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressVariants.js"}}

### Colors

Every palette included in the theme is available via the `color` prop.
Play around combining different colors.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressColors.js"}}

### Sizes

The circular progress component comes with three sizes out of the box: `sm`, `md` (the default), and `lg`.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressSizes.js"}}

### Determinate

You can use the `determinate` prop if you want to indicate a specified wait time.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressDeterminate.js"}}

### Children

The circular progress component places the provided children in the center by default.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressChildren.js"}}

:::info
For plain texts and icons, the dimension is relative to the circular progress's CSS variable (`--CircularProgress-size`).
:::

## CSS variables

Play around with all the CSS variables available in the slider component to see how the design changes.

You can use those to customize the component on both the `sx` prop and the theme.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressVariables.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

Commit message:

add integration with Button and IconButton

docs/data/joy/components/circular-progress/circular-progress.md, after:

---
product: joy-ui
title: React Circular Progress component
githubLabel: 'component: CircularProgress'
---

# Circular Progress

<p class="description">Circular Progress indicators, commonly known as spinners, express an unspecified wait time or display the length of a process.</p>

## Introduction

Progress indicators inform users about the status of ongoing processes, such as loading an app, submitting a form, or saving updates.

- **Determinate** indicators display how long an operation will take.
- **Indeterminate** indicators visualize an unspecified wait time.

The animations of the components rely on CSS as much as possible to work even before the JavaScript is loaded.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressUsage.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": false}}

## Component

After [installation](/joy-ui/getting-started/installation/), you can start building with this component using the following basic elements:

```jsx
import CircularProgress from '@mui/joy/CircularProgress';

export default function MyApp() {
  return <CircularProgress />;
}
```

### Variants

The circular progress component supports the four global variants: `solid` (default), `soft`, `outlined`, and `plain`.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressVariants.js"}}

### Colors

Every palette included in the theme is available via the `color` prop.
Play around combining different colors.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressColors.js"}}

### Sizes

The circular progress component comes with three sizes out of the box: `sm`, `md` (the default), and `lg`.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressSizes.js"}}

### Determinate

You can use the `determinate` prop if you want to indicate a specified wait time.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressDeterminate.js"}}

### Children

The circular progress component places the provided children in the center by default.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressChildren.js"}}

:::info
For plain texts and icons, the dimension is relative to the circular progress's CSS variable (`--CircularProgress-size`).
:::

### With a button

`CircularProgress` can be used as a decorator to show loading on a button.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressButton.js"}}

## CSS variables

Play around with all the CSS variables available in the slider component to see how the design changes.

You can use those to customize the component on both the `sx` prop and the theme.

{{"demo": "CircularProgressVariables.js", "hideToolbar": true}}
