docs/data/material/components/typography/typography.md, before:

---
product: material-ui
title: React Typography component
components: Typography
githubLabel: 'component: Typography'
materialDesign: https://material.io/design/typography/the-type-system.html
---

# Typography

<p class="description">Use typography to present your design and content as clearly and efficiently as possible.</p>

Too many type sizes and styles at once can spoil any layout.
A [typographic scale](https://material.io/design/typography/#type-scale) has a limited set of type sizes that work well together along with the layout grid.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js"}}

## General

The _Roboto_ font will **not** be automatically loaded by MUI.
You are responsible for loading any fonts used in your application.
Roboto Font has a few easy ways to get started. For more advanced configuration, check out
[the theme customization section](/material-ui/customization/typography/).

## Roboto Font CDN

Shown below is a sample link markup used to load the Roboto font from a CDN:

```html
<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500,700&display=swap"
/>
```

## Install with npm

You can [install it](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fontsource/roboto) by typing the below command in your terminal:

`npm install @fontsource/roboto`

Then, you can import it in your entry-point.

```js
import '@fontsource/roboto/300.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/400.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/500.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/700.css';
```

For more info check out [Fontsource](https://github.com/fontsource/fontsource).

Fontsource can be configured to load specific subsets, weights and styles.
MUI default typography configuration only relies on 300, 400, 500, and 700 font weights.

## Component

The Typography component makes it easy to apply a default set of font weights and sizes in your application.

{{"demo": "Types.js"}}

## Theme

In some situations you might not be able to use the `Typography` component.
Hopefully, you might be able to take advantage of the [`typography`](/material-ui/customization/default-theme/?expand-path=$.typography) keys of the theme.

{{"demo": "TypographyTheme.js"}}

## Changing the semantic element

The Typography component uses the `variantMapping` prop to associate a UI variant with a semantic element.
It's important to realize that the style of a typography component is independent from the semantic underlying element.

- You can change the underlying element for a one-off situation with the `component` prop:

```jsx
{
  /* There is already an h1 in the page, let's not duplicate it. */
}
<Typography variant="h1" component="h2">
  h1. Heading
</Typography>;
```

- You can change the mapping [globally using the theme](/material-ui/customization/theme-components/#default-props):

```js
const theme = createTheme({
  components: {
    MuiTypography: {
      defaultProps: {
        variantMapping: {
          h1: 'h2',
          h2: 'h2',
          h3: 'h2',
          h4: 'h2',
          h5: 'h2',
          h6: 'h2',
          subtitle1: 'h2',
          subtitle2: 'h2',
          body1: 'span',
          body2: 'span',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Adding & disabling variants

In addition to using the default typography variants, you can add custom ones, or disable any you don't need. See the [Adding & disabling variants](/material-ui/customization/typography/#adding-amp-disabling-variants) example for more info.

## System props

As a CSS utility component, the `Typography` supports all [`system`](/system/properties/) properties. You can use them as prop directly on the component.
For instance, a margin-top:

```jsx
<Typography mt={2}>
```

## Accessibility

A few key factors to follow for an accessible typography:

- **Color**. Provide enough contrast between text and its background, check out the minimum recommended [WCAG 2.0 color contrast ratio](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-contrast.html) (4.5:1).
- **Font size**. Use [relative units (rem)](/material-ui/customization/typography/#font-size) to accommodate the user's settings.
- **Heading hierarchy**. [Don't skip](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/) heading levels. In order to solve this problem, you need to [separate the semantics from the style](#changing-the-semantic-element).

Commit message:

Add yarn command for Roboto font
A Yarn command for installing the Roboto font has been added for convenience and consistency across the docs.

docs/data/material/components/typography/typography.md, after:

---
product: material-ui
title: React Typography component
components: Typography
githubLabel: 'component: Typography'
materialDesign: https://material.io/design/typography/the-type-system.html
---

# Typography

<p class="description">Use typography to present your design and content as clearly and efficiently as possible.</p>

Too many type sizes and styles at once can spoil any layout.
A [typographic scale](https://material.io/design/typography/#type-scale) has a limited set of type sizes that work well together along with the layout grid.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js"}}

## General

The _Roboto_ font will **not** be automatically loaded by MUI.
You are responsible for loading any fonts used in your application.
Roboto Font has a few easy ways to get started. For more advanced configuration, check out
[the theme customization section](/material-ui/customization/typography/).

## Roboto Font CDN

Shown below is a sample link markup used to load the Roboto font from a CDN:

```html
<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500,700&display=swap"
/>
```

## Install with npm

You can [install it](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fontsource/roboto) by typing the command below in your terminal using **npm**:

`npm install @fontsource/roboto`

Or **yarn**:

`yarn add @fontsource/roboto`

Then, you can import it in your entry-point.

```js
import '@fontsource/roboto/300.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/400.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/500.css';
import '@fontsource/roboto/700.css';
```

For more info check out [Fontsource](https://github.com/fontsource/fontsource).

Fontsource can be configured to load specific subsets, weights and styles.
MUI default typography configuration only relies on 300, 400, 500, and 700 font weights.

## Component

The Typography component makes it easy to apply a default set of font weights and sizes in your application.

{{"demo": "Types.js"}}

## Theme

In some situations you might not be able to use the `Typography` component.
Hopefully, you might be able to take advantage of the [`typography`](/material-ui/customization/default-theme/?expand-path=$.typography) keys of the theme.

{{"demo": "TypographyTheme.js"}}

## Changing the semantic element

The Typography component uses the `variantMapping` prop to associate a UI variant with a semantic element.
It's important to realize that the style of a typography component is independent from the semantic underlying element.

- You can change the underlying element for a one-off situation with the `component` prop:

```jsx
{
  /* There is already an h1 in the page, let's not duplicate it. */
}
<Typography variant="h1" component="h2">
  h1. Heading
</Typography>;
```

- You can change the mapping [globally using the theme](/material-ui/customization/theme-components/#default-props):

```js
const theme = createTheme({
  components: {
    MuiTypography: {
      defaultProps: {
        variantMapping: {
          h1: 'h2',
          h2: 'h2',
          h3: 'h2',
          h4: 'h2',
          h5: 'h2',
          h6: 'h2',
          subtitle1: 'h2',
          subtitle2: 'h2',
          body1: 'span',
          body2: 'span',
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Adding & disabling variants

In addition to using the default typography variants, you can add custom ones, or disable any you don't need. See the [Adding & disabling variants](/material-ui/customization/typography/#adding-amp-disabling-variants) example for more info.

## System props

As a CSS utility component, the `Typography` supports all [`system`](/system/properties/) properties. You can use them as prop directly on the component.
For instance, a margin-top:

```jsx
<Typography mt={2}>
```

## Accessibility

A few key factors to follow for an accessible typography:

- **Color**. Provide enough contrast between text and its background, check out the minimum recommended [WCAG 2.0 color contrast ratio](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-contrast.html) (4.5:1).
- **Font size**. Use [relative units (rem)](/material-ui/customization/typography/#font-size) to accommodate the user's settings.
- **Heading hierarchy**. [Don't skip](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/) heading levels. In order to solve this problem, you need to [separate the semantics from the style](#changing-the-semantic-element).
