# CSS in JS

<p class="description">Você pode aproveitar nossa solução de estilo, mesmo se não estiver usando nossos componentes.</p>

> ⚠️ Estamos trabalhando na extração da solução de estilo em seu próprio pacote: [`@material-ui/styles`](/css-in-js/basics/). É um projeto instável (versão alfa). Hopefully, we will make it the default style implementation for the core components in Material-UI v4.

Material-UI tem como objetivo fornecer bases sólidas para a construção de interfaces de usuário dinâmicas. Por uma questão de simplicidade, **expomos nossa solução de estilo aos usuários**. Você pode usá-lo, mas você não precisa. Esta solução de estilo é [interoperável com](/guides/interoperability/) todas as outras soluções principais.

## Solução de estilo do Material-UI

Nas versões anteriores, o Material-UI usava o LESS e, em seguida, uma solução personalizada no estilo inline para escrever o estilo dos componentes, mas essas abordagens provaram ser limitadas. Mais recentemente, temos [movido para](https://github.com/oliviertassinari/a-journey-toward-better-style) a *CSS-in-JS* solução. **desbloqueia muitos ótimos recursos** (aninhamento de temas, estilos dinâmicos, auto-suporte, etc.). Nós pensamos que é o futuro:

- [Um idioma de estilo unificado](https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660)
- [O futuro do estilo baseado em componentes](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/css-in-javascript-the-future-of-component-based-styling-70b161a79a32)
- [Converter SCSS (Sass) para CSS-in-JS](https://egghead.io/courses/convert-scss-sass-to-css-in-js)

Então, você deve ter notado nas demos que *CSS-in-JS* parece. Usamos o componente de ordem superior criado por [`withStyles`](#api) para injetar uma matriz de estilos no DOM como CSS, usando o JSS. Aqui está um exemplo:

{{"demo": "pages/customization/css-in-js/CssInJs.js"}}

## JSS

A solução de estilo do Material-UI usa [JSS](https://github.com/cssinjs/jss) em seu núcleo. É um [alto desempenho](https://github.com/cssinjs/jss/blob/master/docs/performance.md) JS ao compilador CSS que trabalha em tempo de execução e no lado do servidor. É cerca de 8 kB (minificado e gzipped) e é extensível através de um [plugins](https://github.com/cssinjs/jss/blob/master/docs/plugins.md) API.

Se você acabar usando essa solução de estilo na sua base de código, precisará *aprender a API*. O melhor lugar para começar é observar os recursos que cada um dos [plugins](https://cssinjs.org/plugins/) fornece. Material-UI usa [alguns deles](#plugins). Você sempre pode adicionar novos plugins, se necessário, com o [`JssProvider`](https://github.com/cssinjs/react-jss#custom-setup) ajudante.

Se você deseja construir sua própria instância de `jss` **e** suporte *rtl* Certifique-se de incluir também o [jss-rtl](https://github.com/alitaheri/jss-rtl) plugar. Verifique o [readme](https://github.com/alitaheri/jss-rtl#simple-usage) do jss-rtl para aprender como.

## Sheets registry

Ao renderizar no servidor, você precisará obter todos os estilos renderizados como uma string CSS. O `SheetsRegistry` A classe permite que você agregue e restrinja-os manualmente. Leia mais sobre [Renderização de Servidores](/guides/server-rendering/).

## Sheets manager

O gerenciador de folhas usa uma [contagem de referência](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reference_counting) Algoritmo para anexar e separar as folhas de estilo apenas uma vez por casal (estilos, tema). Essa técnica fornece um importante aumento de desempenho ao renderizar novamente as instâncias de um componente.

Quando apenas renderização no cliente, isso não é algo que você precisa estar ciente. No entanto, ao renderizar no servidor, você faz. Leia mais sobre [Renderização de Servidores](/guides/server-rendering/).

## Class names

You may have noticed that the class names generated by our styling solution are **non-deterministic**, so you can't rely on them to stay the same. O seguinte CSS não funciona:

```css
.MuiAppBar-root-12 {
  opacity: 0.6
}
```

Em vez disso, você tem que usar as `classes` propriedade de um componente para substituí-los. Por outro lado, graças à natureza não-determinístico dos nossos nomes de classe, que pode implementar otimizações para o desenvolvimento e produção. They are easy to debug in development and as short as possible in production:

- desenvolvimento: `.MuiAppBar-root-12`
- produção: `.jss12`

If you don't like this default behavior, you can change it. O JSS conta com o conceito de [gerador de nome de classe](http://cssinjs.org/js-api/#generate-your-own-class-names).

### Global CSS

Fornecemos uma implementação personalizada do gerador de nome de classe para as necessidades de Material-UI: [`createGenerateClassName()`](#creategenerateclassname-options-class-name-generator). Assim como a opção de fazer os nomes de classes serem **determinísticos** com a opção `dangerouslyUseGlobalCSS`. When turned on, the class names will look like this:

- desenvolvimento: `.MuiAppBar-root-`
- produção: `.MuiAppBar-root `

⚠️ **Be cautious when using `dangerouslyUseGlobalCSS`.** We provide this option as an escape hatch for quick prototyping. Relying on it for code running in production has the following implications:

- Global CSS is inherently fragile. People use strict methodologies like [BEM](http://getbem.com/introduction/) to workaround the issue.
- It's harder to keep track of `classes` API changes.

⚠️ When using `dangerouslyUseGlobalCSS` standalone (without Material-UI), you should name your style sheets. `withStyles` has a name option for that:

```jsx
const Button = withStyles(styles, { name: 'button' })(ButtonBase)
```

## CSS injection order

The CSS injected by Material-UI to style a component has the highest specificity possible as the `<link>` is injected at the bottom of the `<head>` to ensure the components always render correctly.

You might, however, also want to override these styles, for example with styled-components. If you are experiencing a CSS injection order issue, JSS [provides a mechanism](https://github.com/cssinjs/jss/blob/master/docs/setup.md#specify-dom-insertion-point) to handle this situation. By adjusting the placement of the `insertionPoint` within your HTML head you can [control the order](http://cssinjs.org/js-api/#attach-style-sheets-in-a-specific-order) that the CSS rules are applied to your components.

### HTML comment

The simplest approach is to add an HTML comment that determines where JSS will inject the styles:

```jsx
<head>
  <!-- jss-insertion-point -->
  <link href="..." />
</head>
```

```jsx
import JssProvider from 'react-jss/lib/JssProvider';
import { create } from 'jss';
import { createGenerateClassName, jssPreset } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const generateClassName = createGenerateClassName();
const jss = create({
  ...jssPreset(),
  // We define a custom insertion point that JSS will look for injecting the styles in the DOM.
  insertionPoint: 'jss-insertion-point',
});

function App() {
  return (
    <JssProvider jss={jss} generateClassName={generateClassName}>
      ...
    </JssProvider>
  );
}

export default App;
```

### Other HTML element

[Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) strips HTML comments when creating the production build. To get around the issue, you can provide a DOM element (other than a comment) as the JSS insertion point.

For example, a `<noscript>` element:

```jsx
<head>
  <noscript id="jss-insertion-point"></noscript>
  <link href="..." />
</head>
```

```jsx
import JssProvider from 'react-jss/lib/JssProvider';
import { create } from 'jss';
import { createGenerateClassName, jssPreset } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const generateClassName = createGenerateClassName();
const jss = create({
  ...jssPreset(),
  // We define a custom insertion point that JSS will look for injecting the styles in the DOM.
  insertionPoint: document.getElementById('jss-insertion-point'),
});

function App() {
  return (
    <JssProvider jss={jss} generateClassName={generateClassName}>
      ...
    </JssProvider>
  );
}

export default App;
```

### JS createComment

codesandbox.io prevents the access to the `<head>` element. To get around the issue, you can use the JavaScript `document.createComment()` API:

```jsx
import JssProvider from 'react-jss/lib/JssProvider';
import { create } from 'jss';
import { createGenerateClassName, jssPreset } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const styleNode = document.createComment("jss-insertion-point");
document.head.insertBefore(styleNode, document.head.firstChild);

const generateClassName = createGenerateClassName();
const jss = create({
  ...jssPreset(),
  // We define a custom insertion point that JSS will look for injecting the styles in the DOM.
  insertionPoint: 'jss-insertion-point',
});

function App() {
  return (
    <JssProvider jss={jss} generateClassName={generateClassName}>
      ...
    </JssProvider>
  );
}

export default App;
```

## JssProvider

react-jss exposes a `JssProvider` component to configure JSS for the underlying child components. There are different use cases:

- Providing a class name generator.
- [Providing a Sheets registry.](/customization/css-in-js/#sheets-registry)
- Providing a JSS instance. You might want to support [Right-to-left](/guides/right-to-left/) or changing the [CSS injection order](/customization/css-in-js/#css-injection-order). Read [the JSS documentation](http://cssinjs.org/js-api/) to learn more about the options available. Here is an example:

```jsx
import JssProvider from 'react-jss/lib/JssProvider';
import { create } from 'jss';
import { createGenerateClassName, jssPreset } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const generateClassName = createGenerateClassName();
const jss = create(jssPreset());

function App() {
  return (
    <JssProvider jss={jss} generateClassName={generateClassName}>
      ...
    </JssProvider>
  );
}

export default App;
```

## Plugins

JSS uses the concept of plugins to extend its core, allowing people to cherry-pick the features they need. You pay the performance overhead for only what's you are using. Given `withStyles` is our internal styling solution, all the plugins aren't available by default. We have added the following list:

- [jss-global](http://cssinjs.org/jss-global/)
- [jss-nested](http://cssinjs.org/jss-nested/)
- [jss-camel-case](http://cssinjs.org/jss-camel-case/)
- [jss-default-unit](http://cssinjs.org/jss-default-unit/)
- [jss-vendor-prefixer](http://cssinjs.org/jss-vendor-prefixer/)
- [jss-props-sort](http://cssinjs.org/jss-props-sort/)

It's a subset of [jss-preset-default](http://cssinjs.org/jss-preset-default/). Of course, you are free to add a new plugin. We have one example for the [`jss-rtl` plugin](/guides/right-to-left/#3--jss-rtl).

## API

### `withStyles(styles, [options]) => higher-order component`

Link a style sheet with a component. It does not modify the component passed to it; instead, it returns a new component with a `classes` property. This `classes` object contains the name of the class names injected in the DOM.

Some implementation details that might be interesting to being aware of:

- It adds a `classes` property so you can override the injected class names from the outside.
- It adds an `innerRef` property so you can get a reference to the wrapped component. The usage of `innerRef` is identical to `ref`.
- It forwards *non React static* properties so this HOC is more "transparent". For instance, it can be used to defined a `getInitialProps()` static method (next.js).

#### Arguments

1. `styles` (*Function | Object*): A function generating the styles or a styles object. It will be linked to the component. Use the function signature if you need to have access to the theme. It's provided as the first argument.
2. `options` (*Object* [optional]): 
    - `options.withTheme` (*Boolean* [optional]): Defaults to `false`. Provide the `theme` object to the component as a property.
    - `options.name` (*String* [optional]): The name of the style sheet. Useful for debugging. If the value isn't provided, it will try to fallback to the name of the component.
    - `options.flip` (*Boolean* [optional]): When set to `false`, this sheet will opt-out the `rtl` transformation. When set to `true`, the styles are inversed. When set to `null`, it follows `theme.direction`.
    - The other keys are forwarded to the options argument of [jss.createStyleSheet([styles], [options])](http://cssinjs.org/js-api/#create-style-sheet).

#### Returns

`higher-order component`: Should be used to wrap a component.

#### Examples

```jsx
import { withStyles } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const styles = {
  root: {
    backgroundColor: 'red',
  },
};

class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  render () {
    return <div className={this.props.classes.root} />;
  }
}

export default withStyles(styles)(MyComponent);
```

Also, you can use as [decorators](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-decorators) like so:

```jsx
import { withStyles } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const styles = {
  root: {
    backgroundColor: 'red',
  },
};

@withStyles(styles)
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  render () {
    return <div className={this.props.classes.root} />;
  }
}

export default MyComponent
```

### `createGenerateClassName([options]) => class name generator`

A function which returns [a class name generator function](http://cssinjs.org/js-api/#generate-your-own-class-names).

#### Arguments

1. `options` (*Object* [optional]): 
    - `options.dangerouslyUseGlobalCSS` (*Boolean* [optional]): Defaults to `false`. Makes the Material-UI class names deterministic.
    - `options.productionPrefix` (*String* [optional]): Defaults to `'jss'`. The string used to prefix the class names in production.
    - `options.seed` (*String* [optional]): Defaults to `''`. The string used to uniquely identify the generator. It can be used to avoid class name collisions when using multiple generators.

#### Returns

`class name generator`: The generator should be provided to JSS.

#### Examples

```jsx
import JssProvider from 'react-jss/lib/JssProvider';
import { createGenerateClassName } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const generateClassName = createGenerateClassName({
  dangerouslyUseGlobalCSS: true,
  productionPrefix: 'c',
});

function App() {
  return (
    <JssProvider generateClassName={generateClassName}>
      ...
    </JssProvider>
  );
}

export default App;
```

## Alternative APIs

Do you think that [higher-order components are the new mixins](https://cdb.reacttraining.com/use-a-render-prop-50de598f11ce)? Rest assured we don't, however because `withStyles()` is a higher-order component, it can be extended with just a **few lines of code** to match different patterns that are all idiomatic React. Here are a couple of examples.

### Render props API (+11 lines)

The term [“render prop”](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html) refers to a simple technique for sharing code between React components using a prop whose value is a function.

```jsx
// You will find the `createStyled` implementation in the source of the demo.
const Styled = createStyled({
  root: {
    background: 'linear-gradient(45deg, #FE6B8B 30%, #FF8E53 90%)',
    borderRadius: 3,
    border: 0,
    color: 'white',
    height: 48,
    padding: '0 30px',
    boxShadow: '0 3px 5px 2px rgba(255, 105, 135, .3)',
  },
});

function RenderProps() {
  return (
    <Styled>
      {({ classes }) => (
        <Button className={classes.root}>
          {'Render props'}
        </Button>
      )}
    </Styled>
  );
}
```

{{"demo": "pages/customization/css-in-js/RenderProps.js"}}

Você pode acessar o tema da mesma maneira que faria com `withStyles`:

```js
const Styled = createStyled(theme => ({
  root: {
    backgroundColor: theme.palette.background.paper,
  },
}));
```

[@jedwards1211](https://github.com/jedwards1211) Has taken the time to move this module into a package: [material-ui-render-props-styles](https://github.com/jcoreio/material-ui-render-props-styles). Sinta-se livre para usá-lo.

### styled-components API (+15 linhas)

styled-components's API removes the mapping between components and styles. Using components as a low-level styling construct can be simpler.

```jsx
// You will find the `styled` implementation in the source of the demo.
// You can even write CSS with https://github.com/cssinjs/jss-template.
const MyButton = styled(Button)({
  background: 'linear-gradient(45deg, #FE6B8B 30%, #FF8E53 90%)',
  borderRadius: 3,
  border: 0,
  color: 'white',
  height: 48,
  padding: '0 30px',
  boxShadow: '0 3px 5px 2px rgba(255, 105, 135, .3)',
});

function StyledComponents() {
  return <MyButton>{'Styled Components'}</MyButton>;
}
```

{{"demo": "pages/customization/css-in-js/StyledComponents.js"}}

Você pode acessar o tema da mesma maneira que faria com `withStyles`:

```js
const MyButton = styled(Button)(theme => ({
  backgroundColor: theme.palette.background.paper,
}));
```